Managing teams can be tough,
you're bringing in people from all different walks of life
with various experiences, skills,
and approaches to solving problems.
There are bound to be occasional miscommunications
and conflicts, you will sometimes struggle
to get everyone on the same page,
or to create synergy between team members.
Let's face it, team problems are inevitable,
but always remember that you have the power
and responsibility to overcome them successfully.
Ready to step up to the challenge?
Then let's explore the top four challenges teams face.
Along with what strategies you can take
to deal with them.
The first problem is a lack of trust.
How can you expect team members
to openly share their ideas and their honest feedback
with each other if they don't trust one another?
How can you collaborate effectively with someone
if you don't trust their skills, their opinions,
or their intentions?
One of the biggest ways that you can foster trust
between team members is to start demonstrating
trusting behaviors first.
Avoid micromanaging your team, delegate tasks
and express your confidence in each team member's abilities.
When your team sees that you trust them,
they will be encouraged to trust each other.
The next problem is communication,
which includes miscommunication
and a lack of team communication.
Unclear goals or responsibilities can result
in confusion and a lack of accountability.
Miscommunication can result in mistakes,
and a lack of communication can create a barrier
to strong performance.
You can combat these issues by being clear and specific
in your communications,
and challenging team members to do the same.
Always specify the details of who, what,
when, where, how and why.
Also, check in regularly with your team to monitor progress.
Provide clarification and detect problems early.
Conflict is another problem that can plague
even the best teams.
Disagreements and interpersonal conflicts
between team members can quickly create a barrier
to effective teamwork, productivity and collaboration.
They can also produce a toxic work environment
that is detrimental to the rest of your team.
You need to nip the team conflicts in the bud
before they grow into bigger problems.
Try acting as a mediator, don't play favorites
or take sides when resolving conflicts.
Listen to both sides, identify points of agreement,
and disagreement, and help individuals
develop common ground.
Also, don't hesitate to be assertive when communicating
what behaviors are accepted,
and what behaviors are unacceptable on the team.
Last is team alignment,
if different team members
are working towards different goals,
then the product is going to suffer.
A team by definition involves people working together
toward shared goals.
So, make sure to create a vision and set boundaries.
Paint a picture of what success looks like for your team,
and clearly define any project constraints.
What do you want the end result to be?
It's easy to recognize symptoms of a team in trouble,
you may notice reduced productivity, lower morale,
or declining team performance.
These symptoms signal that it's time to do some
investigative work and get to the source of the problem.
Treating symptoms may give your team relief
in the short term,
but you need to be able to identify the disease
to address the underlying cause.
Is it a problem with trust?
Communication? Conflict?
Or alignment?
It's up to you to find out
so that you can determine the best long term cure.